Advanced Computer Science with Data Science (January) | University of Strathclyde 









 
 


 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 



 
 








Skip to content


 
























Study with us

Study with us
Course search
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught
Postgraduate research
Postgraduate research & PhD opportunities
University of Strathclyde, Bahrain
Apprenticeship Degrees
Strathclyde Online Learning
Scholarships
Accommodation
International students
Centre for Lifelong Learning


Work with us

Work with us
Research
Job vacancies
Staff search
Training & consultancy
Conferencing & events
Innovation & industry engagement


Why Strathclyde?

Why Strathclyde?
Our campus
Employability
Glasgow
Scotland
Strathclyde Sport
News
University governance
Access to information






Current students 

A-Z Guide
Email
MyPlace
Library
Strathclyde Sport
Careers
Safe360
Strath Union
Pegasus


Staff


Email
Pegasus
Telephone Directory
Safe360







Website search









CoursesPostgraduate taughtAdvanced Computer Science with Data Science (January)





















MSc
Advanced Computer Science with Data Science (January start)


                            Apply
                        









Why this course?
Course content
Entry requirements
Fees & funding
Careers
Apply
Contact us











              Prefer to start your course in September? We also offer our MSc Advanced Computer Science with Data Science (September intake)
            


September intake






Key facts


Start date: January
Study mode and duration: 12 months full-time





Study with us

gain skills to meet the challenges posed by the advent of the data revolution


understand how classical statistical techniques are applied in modern data analysis


work on a research project with our industrial partners

Prefer to start your course in September? We also offer our MSc Advanced Computer Science with Data Science with a September start date.






Why this course?



Back to course




Why this course?
Our MSc Advanced Computer Science with Data Science (January start) gives you the skill set needed in a range of industries. You'll gain an understanding of the new challenges posed by the data revolution, particularly in relation to its modelling, storage and access.
Data scientists are in high demand across a number of sectors, as businesses require people with the right combination of technical, analytical and communication skills. (Prospects, 2022).
Opportunities for graduates exist in a range of industries such as finance, films and games, pharmaceuticals, health care, consumer products and public services. Our MSc Advanced Computer Science with Data Science (January start) gives you the skill set needed.
You’ll also have the opportunity to participate in recruitment events and meet industry employers such as JP Morgan, Adimo, JWF and more.































What you’ll study
You'll choose leading classes that span the breadth of both computer and information sciences, including:

machine learning
deep learning
data wrangling
legal and ethical aspects of data science
software engineering
use of contemporary tools and packages

You'll understand key algorithms and techniques embodied within data analytics solutions and be exposed to a number of different data technologies and techniques. You’ll see how they can achieve efficiency and scalability, while also addressing design trade-offs and their impacts.
You'll learn key technologies that are at the heart of data analytics such as Keras and Tensorflow. You'll also be equipped with a sound understanding of the principles of machine learning and deep learning and a range of popular approaches, along with the knowledge of how and when to apply these.
On this Masters course you’ll also have the opportunity to implement and experiment with these machine learning algorithms using the most popular languages such as R and Python, explore their applications to areas as diverse as analysing activity-related data captured using a smartphone to financial time-series prediction.
Throughout the course we offer opportunities to engage with industry through IT careers fairs, guest lectures from local industry, industrially sponsored projects, specialist sessions from our University Careers Service and student demo days to industry.




Research project
Our project supervision programme ensures a named academic is attached to every MSc student during their project study between May and August each year. Regular meetings are scheduled during the period of the project work, and where an external organisation is involved, meetings between supervisor, student and external body are standard. We have extensive experience of supporting students in placement and thus are well equipped and experienced to manage both university and placement provider expectations.
Facilities
The course will involve some extensive laboratory-based instruction and student work. The Department of Computer and Information Science utilise their own specialist laboratories to provide practical student tuition on large scale advanced applications.
The University library also has a sufficient body of resources to support this course.
 











                    Course content
                



Go back



Course content
Select 40 credits from the elective modules. Please note, elective modules are subject to change.






Go back










January to March
Compulsory


Research Methods (10 credits)



This module aims to provide you with an understanding of both quantitative and qualitative research processes and associated techniques, including the effective presentation of findings in accordance with the best principles of scholarship.




Distributed Information Systems (20 credits)



This module will give you an extended understanding of the deep, technical issues underlying information systems, in the particular context of distributing content over the world-wide web.




Machine Learning for Data Analytics (20 credits)



The aim of this module is to equip you with a sound understanding of the principles of machine learning and a range of popular approaches, along with the knowledge of how and when to apply the techniques. The module balances a solid theoretical knowledge of the techniques with practical application via Python (and associated libraries) and you are expected to be familiar with the language. Aspects of the course will be highly mathematical and technical requiring strong math and programming ability (Python and Tensorflow).



Electives


Mobile Software & Applications (20 credits)



By the end of the module you should be able to:

appreciate and explain the problems associated with mobile software environments
identify and explain the models and techniques typically employed in the design and development of a range of software for mobile environments, and appreciate the limitations of these
appreciate the role and impact of context-awareness and persuasion in modern mobile applications
demonstrate the ability to implement selections from a range of the software typically used in mobile environments





Evolutionary Computing for Finance (20 credits)



This module aims to provide an overview of the application of evolutionary computation techniques – those which mimic natural evolutionary processes (genetic algorithms, genetic programming and neural networks in particular) – to a range of financial applications such as forecasting, portfolio optimisation and algorithmic trading.




Business Analysis (10 credits)



This module aims to provide tools and techniques for the effective analysis and design of business information systems and enable you to develop an understanding of their respective advantages, disadvantages and applicability.


May to August
Research Project (60 credits)
Over the summer semester, from May until August, you'll undertake a significant piece of work that will be your MSc project.  This is typically a very practical activity, and can include:

analysing a problem and designing, implementing and evaluating a solution
conducting an in-depth experimental analysis of technique or technology
performing an analysis of a large data set, and building and evaluating models of the data

We'll also have a range of projects available that are sponsored by our staff based on their latest research, and many that come direct from the employers we work with, representing real-world problems they are trying to solve.
September to December
Compulsory


Legal, Ethical and Professional Issues for the Information Society (10 credits)



This module aims to ensure that you're aware of the legal, social, ethical and professional issues commensurate with the practice of Information Systems Engineering. 




Deep Learning Theory & Practices (20 credits)



By the end of the module you should be able to:

understand the challenges in the training of deep neural network and how to overcome the challenges with few shot learning techniques
understand how to process sequential data with deep neural network and the applications in natural language processing
develop an understanding of the potentials and generalisation of deep neural networks through theoretical analysis
understand deep generative models and their main approaches
understand how to build deep neural networks in Python using packages such as Keras/PyTorch and implement such networks




Electives


Advanced Topics in Software Engineering (20 credits)



This module aims to introduce you to a selection of recent advances in software engineering, along with some of the challenges and outstanding problems.
The current focus of the module is on the use of AI-based techniques to address significant software engineering problems, and to put these into practice on real problems and evaluate their effectiveness.




Information Retrieval (10 credits)



You'll learn to:

critically examine a number of influential information-seeking models
provide an understanding of research methodologies for studying human information behaviour
examine important concepts, such as relevance, in the context of information seeking and retrieval
examine how findings from information seeking theory and practise can inform the design of information access systems
outline the theory and technology used to construct modern Information Retrieval and Access systems
critically evaluate the assumptions behind the evaluation of Information Retrieval systems





Big Data Technologies (20 credits) 



In this module you will learn to: 

understand the fundamentals of Python to enable the use of various big data technologies
understand how classical statistical techniques are applied in modern data analysis
understand the potential application of data analysis tools for various problems and appreciate their limitations
be familiar with a number of different cloud NoSQL systems and their design and implementation, showing how they can achieve efficiency and scalability while also addressing design trade-offs and their impacts
be familiar with the Map-Reduce programming paradigm














Learning & teaching
Our teaching and learning methods include lectures, tutorials, laboratory practicals and combinations of individual and group work. These will not only develop your expertise in computer science and data science, but also in communication, team-working and analytical skills which are all essential skills for your future career.
Class material will be placed on Myplace for students to gain access to in their own time. A personal computer (microcomputer, desktop computer, laptop computer, tablet) is required to access teaching materials and attending online lectures/meeting. The computer lab is also available for students to use.
You’ll have regular contact with our expert staff, many of whom have been nominated for, and won, teaching awards based on nominations by our students.
Assessment
Methods of assessment and learning: written examinations, formative and summative approaches are taken in different aspects of the course. Written group/individual reports, oral presentations and moderated peer assessment are all included in the course.









                           Entry requirements
                       



Back to course



Entry requirements











Go back



Academic requirementsMinimum second-class (2:2) Honours degree or international equivalent in computer science or another numerate discipline (for example, mathematics, physics or engineering).
Some programming or database experience is normally required.
Other disciplines who have significant programming experience should contact us to discuss applying for this course.
English language requirementsYou must have an English language minimum score of IELTS 6.0 (with no component below 5.5).
We offer comprehensive English language courses for students whose IELTS scores are below 6.0. Please see English Language Teaching for full details.
As a university, we now accept many more English language tests other than IELTS for overseas applicants, for example, TOEFL and PTE Cambridge. View the full list of accepted English language tests here.
























Chat to a student ambassador
Want to know more about what it’s like to be a Science student at the University of Strathclyde? A selection of our current students are here to help!
Our Unibuddy ambassadors can answer all your questions about courses and studying at Strathclyde and offer insight into their experiences of life in Glasgow and Scotland.

                          
                          Chat to a student ambassador
                          











International students
We've a thriving international community with students coming here to study from over 140 countries across the world. Find out all you need to know about studying in Glasgow at Strathclyde and hear from students about their experiences.

                          
                          Visit our international students' section
                          














                Fees & funding
            



Back to course



Fees & funding
All fees quoted are for full-time courses and per academic year unless stated otherwise.

Fees may be subject to updates to maintain accuracy. Tuition fees will be notified in your offer letter.
All fees are in £ sterling, unless otherwise stated, and may be subject to revision.
Annual revision of fees
Students on programmes of study of more than one year (or studying standalone modules) should be aware that the majority of fees will increase annually. The University will take a range of factors into account, including, but not limited to, UK inflation, changes in delivery costs and changes in Scottish and/or UK Government funding. Changes in fees will be published on the University website in October each year for the following year of study and any annual increase will be capped at a maximum of 10% per year.






January 2026



Go back



Scotland£11,900
England, Wales & Northern Ireland£11,900

Republic of Ireland

If you are an Irish citizen and have been ordinary resident in the Republic of Ireland for the three years prior to the relevant date, and will be coming to Scotland for Educational purposes only, you will meet the criteria of England, Wales & Northern Ireland fee status. For more information and advice on tuition fee status, you can visit the UKCISA - International student advice and guidance - Scotland: fee status webpage. Find out more about the University of Strathclyde's fee assessments process.


International £30,250
Available scholarshipsTake a look at our scholarships search for funding opportunities.
Additional costsInternational students may have associated visa and immigration costs. Please see student visa guidance for more information.







Please note: the fees shown are annual and may be subject to an increase each year. Find out more about fees.










How can I fund my course?













Students from Scotland


Go back

Scottish postgraduate students
Scottish postgraduate students may be able to apply for support from the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS). The support is in the form of a tuition fee loan and for eligible students, a living cost loan. Find out more about the support and how to apply.
Don’t forget to check our scholarship search for more help with fees and funding.


Students from England


Go back

Students coming from England
Students ordinarily resident in England may be to apply for postgraduate support from Student Finance England. The support is a loan of up to £10,280 which can be used for both tuition fees and living costs. Find out more about the support and how to apply.
Don’t forget to check our scholarship search for more help with fees and funding.


Students from Wales


Go back

Students coming from Wales
Students ordinarily resident in Wales may be to apply for postgraduate support from Student Finance Wales. The support is a loan of up to £10,280 which can be used for both tuition fees and living costs. Find out more about the support and how to apply.
Don’t forget to check our scholarship search for more help with fees and funding.


Students from Northern Ireland


Go back

Students coming from Northern Ireland
Postgraduate students who are ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland may be able to apply for support from Student Finance Northern Ireland. The support is a tuition fee loan of up to £5,500. Find out more about the support and how to apply.
Don’t forget to check our scholarship search for more help with fees and funding.


International students


Go back

International students
We've a large range of scholarships available to help you fund your studies. Check our scholarship search for more help with fees and funding.







Glasgow is Scotland's biggest & most cosmopolitan city
Our campus is based right in the very heart of Glasgow. We're in the city centre, next to the Merchant City, both of which are great locations for sightseeing, shopping and socialising alongside your studies.

                          
                          Life in Glasgow
                          















                        Careers
                    



Back to course



Careers
There will be opportunities for you to meet industry employers and take part in recruitment events, in addition to taking advantage of a wealth of support offered by our award-winning careers service.
Opportunities for graduates of the MSc Advanced Computer Science with Data Science exist in various industries:

finance
films and games
pharmaceuticals
healthcare
consumer products
public services




Salaries*


CareerSalary

Data scientist 
Salaries for junior data scientists tend to start at around £25,000 to £30,000, rising to £40,000 depending on your experience. With a few years' experience you can expect to earn between £40,000 and £60,000. Lead and chief data scientists can earn upwards of £60,000, in some cases reaching more than £100,000.


Data analyst
Entry-level salaries for Data Analyst’s range between £23,000 and £25,000. Graduate schemes in data analysis and business intelligence at larger companies tend to offer a higher starting salary of £25,000 to £30,000. With a few years' experience, salaries can rise to between £30,000 and £35,000. Experienced, high-level and consulting jobs can command £60,000 or more.           


Software engineer
Typical graduate software engineer salaries start from £28,000 a year. With a few years experience this can range to between £40,000 and £60,000. At senior or management level, software engineers can earn up to £70,000 or more per annum. Bonus schemes may be available.



*Information taken from Prospects (last accessed July 2024)











                        Apply
                    



Back to course



Apply
To apply for September 2025 entry, please visit MSc Advanced Computer Science with Data Science.










Start date: Jan 2026




Advanced Computer Science with Data Science (January intake)

MSc
full-time
Start date: Jan 2026










Apply now















Contact us



Back to course



Contact us





PGT Admissions Team
Telephone: +44 (0)141 553 6023

Email: science-masters@strath.ac.uk



Chat with us



















Have you considered?
We've a range of postgraduate taught and Masters courses similar to this one which may also be of interest.



Advanced Computational Mathematics (MSc)
Advanced Computer Science (MSc)
Advanced Computer Science (January start) (MSc)
Advanced Computer Science with Data Science (MSc)
Advanced Computer Science with Data Science (January start) (MSc)
Advanced Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence (MSc)
Advanced Computer Science with Software Engineering (MSc)
Advanced Computer Science with Software Engineering (MSc) (January start)
Advanced Mathematical Modelling (MSc)
Cyber Security (MSc)






Artificial Intelligence & Applications (MSc)
Digital Health Systems (MSc)
Information Management (MSc)
Information & Library Studies (MSc)
Machine Learning & Deep Learning (MSc)
Software Development (MSc)
Sport Data Analytics (MSc)
Chemistry with Artificial Intelligence (MSc)
Chemistry with Data Science (MSc)
Advanced Data Science (MSc)
Statistics & Data Science (MSc)








 Back to top




Our faculties & departments 




Engineering

Faculty of Engineering
Architecture
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical & Process Engineering
Civil & Environmental Engineering
Design, Manufacturing & Engineering Management
Electronic & Electrical Engineering
Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering
Naval Architecture, Ocean & Marine Engineering



Humanities & Social Sciences

Faculty of Humanities & Social Sciences
Centre for Lifelong Learning
Education
Government & Public Policy
Humanities
Law
Psychological Sciences & Health
Social Work & Social Policy



Science

Faculty of Science
Computer & Information Sciences
Mathematics & Statistics
Physics
Pure & Applied Chemistry
Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy & Biomedical Sciences



Strathclyde Business School

Strathclyde Business School
Accounting & Finance
Economics
Hunter Centre for Entrepreneurship, Strategy & Innovation
Management Science
Marketing
MBA & General Management
Strathclyde Executive Education & Development
Work, Employment & Organisation












Professional services






Access, Equality & Inclusion Service
Alumni & Development
Careers Service
Conferencing & Events
Disability & Wellbeing Service
Education Enhancement
Equality & Diversity
Estates Services
Finance Directorate
Human Resources




Information Governance Unit
Information Services Directorate
Internal Audit
Innovation & Industry Engagement
Legal Services
Library
Occupational Health
Procurement
Research & Knowledge Exchange Services




Safety, Wellbeing & Resilience
Strategy & Planning
Strathclyde Print
Strathclyde Sport
Student Experience
Student Lifecycle
Widening Access













Online services







Student/Staff email
Myplace
PEGASUS
PURE
KnowledgeBase




Timetables
Lab availability
Telephone Directory
Report IT problems & IT Service Status
Service Catalogue




ULab
SharePoint
Zoom


















Professional services







Online services







Quick links

Website Privacy Policy 
Cookie Notice
Accessibility Statement
Equality & Diversity
Modern Slavery Statement
Access to Information
Complaints Procedure
Vacancies






Get in touch

Ways to contact the University of Strathclyde

Connect















The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263.

